Globalisation is upon us and South Africa is ensuring readiness by adopting what is called Specialised Economic Zones (SEZ). According to Investopedia, an SEZ is a designated area in a country subjected to specialised economic regulations different from other areas. These zones play a huge role in encouraging trade and investment opportunities that benefit the country through job creation. The Gauteng Industrial Development Zone Company (‘Gauteng IDZ’) was founded in 2009 under the Gauteng Growth and Development Agency (GGDA) and was established with the purpose of developing and operating the designated Industrial Development Zone at OR Tambo International Airport. OR Tambo International Airport accommodates over 21 million passengers annually, making it Africa’s largest and busiest international airport. The vision of the GIDZ is “to identify, design, package and enable focused export driven manufacturing and beneficiation programmes for location at the OR Tambo International Airport IDZ. OR Tambo International is known for its exceptional infrastructure and resources. It is a well-positioned logistics and distribution hub for air cargo internationally and in the region. OR Tambo international is the largest air cargo airport on the African continent, with the capacity to handle 40 000 tonnes annually. 82% of South Africa’s cargo comes through OR Tambo.” How does an IDZ impact citizens? In an effort to reposition itself in the world economy, the South African government launched the Industrial Development Zones (IDZ) programme with the aim to facilitate inclusive and competitive economic growth in order for citizens to enter new jobs and benefit from the investments attracted. The GIDZ also runs a post-graduate Jewellery Design course called Design@50. The Jewellery Design Centre was established in 2013, and puts students through an 11-month course offering training in Marketing, Commercial Jewellery Design and Product Development, utilising state of the art Computer Aided Design (CAD) and Manufacturing technology. The centre aims to increase technology proficiency ahead of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and pave the way for skilled designers by shaping talent that can contribute to the development of the South African jewellery market. Design@50 was launched as part of the OR Tambo Industrial Development Zone, currently under construction next to OR Tambo International Airport. To find out more about the GIDZ, click here: http://www.gidz.co.za