Brand South Africa through its Constitutional awareness campaign #InspiredByMyConstitution, aims to ensure that the values enshrined in the widely admired constitution, are indeed a lived experience by all parts of society. On Friday, 01 March 2018, Brand South Africa in collaboration with its Play Your Part ambassador, Imraan Christian were in the community of Hout Bay in the Western Cape to reclaim shared social spaces through art. The activation was hosted at Salamander Park in Hout Bay with the community’s children out in their numbers to creatively express in their social spaces. “Many parks in South African communities, have been widely prone to house social ills and misuse. It was, therefore, a significant gesture to creatively reclaim this space for what it’s intended for, this includes constructive social interaction, artistry and youth development”, said Brand South Africa’s Strategic Relationship Manager for Government, Ms Toni Gumede. The day began with a pop quiz to the youth that was to engage the youth in understanding what positivity means for their community, on the importance of being active citizens and knowing their rights which challenged the children to express themselves in dance and art. Speaking on how the event was received; Play Your Part ambassador Imraan Christian said; “it was a huge success and overwhelming to see so many young people coming together to reclaim their space through art, seeing their talent and their togetherness was inspiring.” Imraan further emphasised that we all have responsibility for positive change, “do what you can, positive acts no matter how small have a ripple effect that can really affect not only our own world but the greater world.” The Brand South Africa constitution awareness programme intends to foster an appreciation for the Constitution and the role that it plays in our individual lives as well as its impact on society as a whole. “Brand South Africa is promoting freedom of expression through art and social cohesion through constructive use of shared community spaces” adds Ms Gumede. Join in the conversations #InspiredByMyConstitution @Brand_SA or @PlayYourPart to learn more.