Johannesburg, Wednesday 27 February 2019 – Brand South Africa is proud to collaborate with RapidLion Film Festival for the third consecutive year, taking place from the 1st to the – 10th of March 2019 at the Market Theatre in Johannesburg. This follows a successful hosting of the Brand South Africa’s flagship programme, the Nation Brand Forum in 2018, where the role of film and the creative industries in shaping the Nation Brand was unpacked. This time Brand South Africa takes a different approach to engage with creatives in a research engagement to delve deeper in how the organisation and the creative industry can enhance its efforts to take film to the South African masses. From these engagements Brand South Africa will amalgamate lessons that can inform the organisation’s strategy and the profiling of the country brand in an impactful way. Speaking on the anticipated session, Brand South Africa’s General Manager for Research Dr Petrus De Kock said; “The creative industries play a major role in shaping the profile, presence, and reputation of the South African Nation Brand both domestically and globally. To this end we want to use this platform to engage with industry experts, gather insight from the creative industry. The session under the theme, “What to do to get cinema to South Africa’s masses?” will have panelists such as actor and director Hlomla Dandala, Kasi Movie Nights’ Producer Thapelo Mokoena who will engage in identifying tangible and sustainable opportunities for mass audiences to have access to cinema. “This is definitely one-way of utilising a positive brand image of the country that is influenced by its people, telling their own stories through the film industry. The RapidLion Film Festival is a perfect fit in promoting the reputation of South Africa.” adds Dr De Kock. This year’s festival will see the return of the RapidLion Awards Ceremony on Saturday, the 9th of March with several local and foreign films standing out. From South Africa will be such as Five Fingers for Marseilles (SA), Sew The Winter to My Skin (SA), Silent Winter China), Catching Feelings (SA), and the best of BRICS Films being nominated. Media wishing to attend the Brand South Africa session which will be led by L.K. Theatres can contact no later than 01 March 2019: Ntombi Ntanzi 011 483 0122, ntombin@brandsouthafrica.com  Tickets to the festival are available through www.webtickets.co.za  //ENDS// About Brand South Africa Brand South Africa is the official marketing agency of South Africa, with a mandate to build the country’s brand reputation, in order to improve its global competitiveness. Its aim is also to promote  pride and patriotism among South Africans,  to contribute to nation building and social cohesion  For more information visit www.brandsouthafrica.com  About RapidLion- The South African International Film Festival RapidLion recognises the achievements and excellence of filmmakers who are born in Africa, are members of the African diaspora and are citizens of BRICS countries. For more information, visit www.rapidlion.co.za