The 11th annual Africa Energy Indaba Conference took place at the Sandton Convention Centre last week under the theme Africa’s Energy Future. The two-day conference was focused on the on-going development of the African energy sector and encouraged dialogue around enabling adequate energy generation across the African continent. This year, delegates from over 38 African countries were present. Conference sessions took place parallel to the exciting exhibition on show, as well as technical workshops. One of the workshops, presented by Eskom’s Head of Research for Testing and Development Kubeshnie Bhugwandin, spoke to strategic responses to disruptive innovations. The workshop had a look at the effect of disruption over the years, how it’s directly affected both business and consumer and how we should shift our perspective around it. Ms. Bhugwandin also warned about the detriment of embracing disruptive technologies when your business and audience is not yet ready for it. It is evident that no sector is able to fully function without laying claim of the impending Fourth Industrial Revolution, and Africa’s preparation for it. The MarketPlace Business Matchmaking Programme gave businesses and individuals an opportunity to sit down with exhibitors, speakers, sponsors and investors to explore potential ventures. Director of Divaine Growth Solutions, Dr Sindi Mzamo encouraged engagement, face to face interaction and social media platforms in her talk about the Power of Networking.
Low Carbon Transport South Africa had electric cars on display and gave visitors an opportunity to discover the benefits of getting plugged in. In a recent statement about the Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Programme, Minister of Energy, Jeff Radebe said: “Let us take up the challenge, eradicate poverty and grow the economy for our children and their children, never forgetting our responsibility towards Mother Nature. If we do not look after our future, there will not be a future.” We now look forward to the 2020 Africa Energy Indaba that takes place 3 – 4 March 2020 at the Cape Town International Convention Centre, as we work to build a better South Africa. Image: Instagram